back in 2017 Harvard did an extensive
research study which found people who
ask questions in conversations are more
liked by their conversation Partners
than people who don't ask very many
questions and this shouldn't be
surprising when somebody asks you a
question about whatever it is you're
talking about it shows that they care
that they're genuinely interested in
hearing more about whatever it is that
you're discussing so in this video I am
going to give you five tips five ways to
ask better questions in the daily
conversations you're having my first tip
is pretty obvious and it is to listen
carefully utilize those active listening
skills because our knee-jerk reaction is
often to tell our own story or give our
own experience and it's much more
difficult to really be focused and
listen carefully to whatever it is the
other person is talking about with the
purpose of learning more of asking more
questions so if you find that you're in
a conversation in your brain is
defaulting to prompt you to tell a story
about a similar experience you had
that's okay to eventually share that
story but I want you to place that
secondary and instead have your primary
focus on whatever it is that person's
talking about and really aim to ask more
questions to to learn more about that
subject when you show a genuine interest
in someone and allow curiosity to take
over naturally you're going to have
questions and my next tip to ask better
questions is to specifically ask what
and how questions if we only ask our
conversation partner questions that
result in them saying yes or no often it
can bring that conversation to a
screeching halt unless we're quickly
asking more follow-up questions but if
we replace those with what and how
questions forces that person to give us
an answer that is a little bit more
indepth as an example if we're chatting
with somebody and they tell us that they
went to University a couple years ago
instead of asking did you enjoy
University which will likely result in a
yeah or no instead we can say what was
the best thing about the university you
attended or how has your education from
that University helped you in your
current job today by asking these what
and how questions it forces our
conversation partner to give us answers
that are a little bit more in depth and
it will give us information for the
follow-up questions which is my third
tip and that is to ask follow-up
questions in conversations I think the
biggest key with asking follow-up
questions is to really hone in on a
genuine curiosity in what that person is
talking about out because if you're
simply asking questions for the purpose
of asking questions it's not going to
feel authentic whereas if you can really
no matter what it is that that person is
mentioning focus and and seek to learn
more about the information they're
telling you and to to learn and see it
as a chance to educate yourself that
person's going to enjoy telling you
about it but also you are going to enjoy
the conversation more because it's going
to naturally make you more engaged in it
so as you're talking with the person and
you ask questions in your mind you can
also be thinking follow-up questions
which will continue them responding and
teaching you more about that information
I want to pause here because I actually
recently received a comment on social
media of somebody saying wait I hate
people who only ask questions in
conversations it's lazy and I sort of
disagree with the lazy take I actually
think it's lazier to never ask any
questions but I do understand what this
person is saying and it goes back to I
think that we should treat conversations
like a tennis match the ball needs to go
both ways and if the person is asking
you questions of course you shouldn't
then just turn back another question to
them these conversations have a flow and
you should also be able to tell your
stories and engage but from my
experience the ability to to ask
questions and show that genuine
curiosity is such a rare trait and like
the Harvard research suggests people
enjoy these conversations more and so
while it's fine to share your own
experiences make sure you're not
dominating the conversation and just
talking the whole time you also want to
share it you want to ask other people
questions and that should result in a
more enjoyable conversation my next tip
is to focus on what the person you're
speaking with is interested in and
there's this famous acronym known as the
Ford method the Ford stands for family
occupation Recreation and dreams and the
idea is that this is sort of a template
for conversations for different
categories that will likely have an
impact on that person and that will be
interesting subject matter for them to
talk about and it's fine to use that as
a template I personally don't find that
it's necessary as if I'm genuinely
interested in what the person's talking
about it doesn't matter where the
conversation goes there's going to be a
lot of areas to discuss and more
questions to ask them but it's a good
framework especially if you struggle
with these types of conversations that
you can lean on This Acronym and
remember the different categories and
let's start with family I mean if you're
chatting with somebody and they mention
that they have children ask them about
their kids ask them what the ages are
what are their kids interested in what
has the summer been like with them out
of school it must be crazy trying to get
them from activity to activity while
balancing a job there's so much
information you can ask them about and
that person will probably enjoy that
conversation because their kids are
probably their world and if you show an
interest in learning more about that
aspect of their life it's going to be
meaningful to them my final tip has a
big caveat to it it because you need to
really understand the Cadence of the
conversation you're in and don't jump
into this too quickly but the final tip
is to not be afraid to ask a big or a
deep question and of course this could
go horribly wrong if you haven't seen
somebody in years and within the first
minute you say oh wow you got divorced
what was that like I mean something like
that is going to be completely
offputting and that is not going to help
that person enjoy the conversation
that's not what I'm suggesting here what
I am suggesting is once you've had a
lengthy conversation with somebody or
maybe this is somebody who you see on a
fairly regular basis don't be afraid to
go beyond the surface level questions
that we so often have during daily
conversations and really dive into some
of those deeper parts of whatever it is
that we're experiencing an example of
this a friend of mine I recently had the
chance to spend several hours with him
and toward the end of the conversation I
knew he had been diagnosed with the
medical condition a few years back and
so I asked him what was it like in that
moment in time like can he take me back
to that moment in time when he got the
diagnosis was he mad was he angry how
did that make him feel and I learned
things after I asked him that question
that I never would have known and I
think for him while I'm sure it's
somewhat difficult to talk about it was
also perhaps cathartic perhaps it was
enjoyable but you could tell that he was
okay answering this and he actually
appreciated that I had asked him some of
these deeper questions and that's one of
the Beauties about having a a lengthy
conversation talking to somebody for a
while you build that trust but by
showing a genuine interest by listening
carefully it allows you to build to that
point where you can ask those deeper
more meaningful questions and often this
results in not only a better
conversation but a better relationship
with that person so that's the final tip
on asking better questions is don't be
afraid of asking those deeper questions
when the time is right I'm a True
Believer that those people who show a
genuine curiosity and conversations and
ask the person they're talking with
questions about their life are often
regarded as very nice people very great
conversationalists and I'm a big
believer that if you focus on asking
questions and just focus on really being
a good listener it's going to enrich
your life and it's going to enrich the
conversations of people who are speaking
with you so I hope these tips on asking
better questions have been helpful let
me know if you have any thoughts have
you had that experience as well where
somebody you talk to on a regular basis
is just a really enjoyable person to
talk to are they somebody who ask you a
lot of questions let me know in the
comments if you haven't already
subscribed to my channel consider
subscribing because I talk about all
sorts of things that are related to
impactful communication it is what I am
truly passionate about whether that's
public speaking whether that's
one-on-one conversation like we
discussed on this video but regardless
thank you so much for taking the time to
watch this I'll catch you on the next
one